---
title: "Post-Layout Optimization for Field-coupled Nanotechnologies"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023_008
date: 2023-12-08
venue: 'International Symposium on Nanoscale Architectures'
paperurl: 'http://marcelwa.github.io/files/2023_008.pdf'
---

While conventional computing technologies reach their limits, the demand for computation power keeps growing, fueling the interest in post-CMOS technologies. One promising contestant in this domain is Field-coupled Nanocomputing (FCN), which conducts computations based on the repulsion of physical fields at the nanoscale. However, to realize a dedicated functionality in this technology design methods are needed that create corresponding FCN layouts. While several methods for FCN layout generation have been proposed in the past, the underlying complexity requires them to resort to heuristic approaches—leading to results of sub-par quality and offering room for improvement. In conventional CMOS design, post-layout optimization methods are available to exploit this potential for further improvement. Unfortunately, no such methods exists yet for FCN. In this work, we are addressing this gap and introduce the first post-layout optimization approach for FCN. Experimental evaluations show the benefits of the approach: Applied to layouts generated by two complementary state-of-the-art methods, the proposed post-layout optimization allows for a further area reduction of 50.79 % and 20.00 % on average, respectively—confirming the potential of post-layout optimization for FCN.

Download [here](http://marcelwa.github.io/files/2023_008.pdf)
