---
title: "Bias by Design: Diversity Quantification to Mitigate Structural Bias Effects in AIG Logic Optimization"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025_011
date: 2025-03-31
venue: 'Design, Automation and Test in Europe'
paperurl: 'http://marcelwa.github.io/files/2025_011.pdf'
---

And-Inverter Graphs (AIGs) are a fundamental data structure in logic optimization, widely used in modern electronic design automation. A persistent challenge in AIG optimization is structural bias, where the initial graph structure strongly influences optimization quality by restricting the search space, often resulting in subpar outcomes. Existing methods address this issue by running multiple optimization workflows in parallel, relying on a trial-and-error approach that lacks a systematic way to measure structural diversity or assess effectiveness, making them computationally expensive and inefficient. This paper introduces a novel framework for systematically evaluating and reducing structural bias by measuring structural diversity, defined as the degree of dissimilarity between AIG graphs. Several traditional graph similarity measures and newly proposed AIG-specific metrics, including the Rewrite, Refactor, and Resub Scores, are explored. Results reveal limitations in traditional graph similarity metrics and highlight the effectiveness of the proposed AIG-specific measures in quantifying structural dissimilarity. Notably, the RRR Score shows a strong correlation (Pearson correlation coefficient, r = 0.79) with post-optimization structural differences, demonstrating the reliability of the metric in capturing meaningful variations between AIG structures. This work addresses the challenge of quantifying structural bias and offers a methodology that can potentially improve optimization outcomes, with future extensions applicable to other logic graph types.

Download [here](http://marcelwa.github.io/files/2025_011.pdf)
